Linux Processes 2
10

How many child processes did SysV Init daemon spawn?
find PID of SysV Init then:
ps --ppid 1 -lf

Linux Processes 3
10

Identify all of the arguments given to the ntpd daemon (service) using ps.

Format: List all options with parameters (include numbers).
ps -p 1468 -o cmd

Linux Processes 4
10

What is the parent process to Bombadil’s Bash process? (name of the binary, not the absolute path)
the -bash(PID28461,PPID28458) is the shell which was made bythe sshd login bambadil(PID28458,PPID2008) which was made by the sshd daemon PID2008

Linux Processes 5
10

Identify the file mapped to the fourth file descriptor (handle) of the cron process.

HINT: There might be multiple cron processes, but only one with the answer.

Flag format: /absolute/path
sudo lsof -c cron
look for the 4th handle (handles have numbers and a letter under the FD column)

Linux Processes 6
10

Identify the permissions that cron has on the file identified in Processes 5.

HINT: Read the man page for lsof to understand permissions.

Flag format: If more than one, list the permissions comma separated, no spaces
sudo lsof -c cron to see that cron was ran as root when accessing the file
ls -lisa /run/crond.pid to see file permissions, root made the file and has r,w perms, so cron has r,w perms on the file

Linux Processes 7
10

Identify the names of the orphan processes on the SysV system.

NOTE: Remember, orphan processes spawn and die periodically. Try monitoring the processes list with top or htop to find them.

Flag format: in alphabetical order with all non-alphabetic characters removed: Name,Name,Name,Name

HINT: Only character names!
htop press f2 go to columns add ppid press f10 watch for processes where ppids turn to 1

Linux Processes 8
10
Flag format: filepath,configuration_option
Locate zombie processes on the SysV system.

Identify the zombie processes' parent process.

NOTE: Remember, zombie processes only live until the parent process kills and removes them from the system’s process table. Try monitoring the processes list with top or htop to find them.

Flag format: /absolute/path
watch for processes to go from s to z and look at the ppid and match it with its parnet process

Linux Processes 9
10

Locate the strange open port on the SysV system.

Identify the command line executable and its arguments.

Flag format: /executable/path -arguments
netstat -atulpn
port 9999 is open
sudo lsof -i :9999
theres a netcat cmd being run (process)
htop
look for the cmd and port in htop

Linux Process Proc Dir 1
10

Examine the process list to find the ssh process. Then, identify the symbolic link to the absolute path for its executable in the /proc directory.

The flag is the absolute path to the symbolic link, and the file it is linked to.

Flag format: /absolute/path,/absolute/path
sudo lsof -c ssh ->> to find pid of ssh and file path
sudo ls -lisa /proc/28458 ->> to find exe and its link

Linux Process Proc Dir 2
10

Identify the file that contains udp connection information. Identify the process using port 123.

For the flag, enter:

    Process name
    File descriptor number for the udp socket
    Its permissions as shown in lsof

Flag format: name,#,permission
sudo lsof -i :123
look for the entry most likely usable by other computers (10.6.0.7:ntp) look under FD (19u) 19 = number u = permissions
ps -pid 1468 -lf (optional)

Linux Processes 10
15

Locate the strange open port on the SysV system.

Identify how the process persists between reboots.

The flag is the absolute path for the file that contains the persistence mechanism, and the configuration option.

HINT: Persistence is defined here

Flag format: filepath,configuration_option




Linux Process Proc Dir 3
15

Identify one of the human-readable file handles by the other program that creates a zombie process.

NOTE: Remember, zombie processes only live until the parent process kills them. Try monitoring the processes list with top or htop to find them.

The flag is the text from one of the files it reads.
htop ->> find the zombie process and the process that creates it
ls /usr/local/sbin/thenine
sudo -lsof -c thenine ->> identify the handle that is human readable
cat /opt/mysoul


---------FIND EVIL (HARD)------------
Linux Process Find Evil 1
15

    Scenario: The Villains group has been chanting offerings to their new leader at regular intervals over a TCP connection.

    Task: Identify their method of communication and how it is occurring. Locate the following artifacts: ** The chant/text used by each villain (include spaces) ** The new Lord receiving the offering ** The IP address and port that the offering is received over

    Flag format: chant text,new Lord,IP:port

    Machine: Minas_Tirith
Mausan ukoul for avhe mubullat goth,witch_king,127.0.0.1:witch_king
---looking at htop i see Gothmog/offering and witch_king popup
cat into gothmog/chant to see the chant and into gothmog/offering to see that it opens port on 1234 to send traffic
netstat -ano to see what ip and port are established with that port

Linux Process Find Evil 2
15

    Scenario: Someone or something is stealing files with a .txt extension from user directories. Determine how these thefts are occurring.

    Task: Identify the command being ran and how it occurs.

    Flag format: command,how it occurs

    Machine: Terra

    Hint: Explore persistence mechanisms and services.
















